[MUSIC]
Hello, my name is Joelle Pineau, and
I'm a faculty member at the School of
Computer Science at McGill University.
And I'm also a research manager at
the Facebook AI research lab in Montreal.
It's my pleasure to be here today and tell
you a little bit about some of the work
we've been doing on the issues of
building systems that are reproducible,
reusable, and robust, in particular for
reinforcement learning.
And so it may be interesting to you
to know why do I tie these three R's
together, what do they have in common?
And let me draw from this quote from
the National Science Foundation
that says that reproducibility
actually refers to the ability for
researcher to duplicate the results
of a prior study using the same
materials that were used by
the original investigator.
And reproducibility is also
the minimum necessary condition for
finding to be believable and informative.
And so as scientists,
all of these components are actually very
important to how we practice science.
But it's also very important terms of
how we share the findings from our work.
There's been talks of this reproducibility
crisis in science broadly,
not just in machine learning.
And so the journal Nature ran
a very interesting study in 2016,
surveying 1,500 or so
scientists asking them whether they
thought there was a reproducibility
crisis in their field.
And a large number of them said, yes,
there's either slight crisis or
a serious crisis going on.
Now, in some of our work,
we've been trying to figure out,
it's one thing to be alarmist and
answer some surveys.
But then it's also another
thing to look carefully at what
the data tells us when we
conduct our own comparisons.
And in the case of reinforcement learning,
it's been very impressive the rate of
progress we've seen in the last
couple of years, really.
Systems demonstrating the ability to play,
in many cases,
play games at a performance
level exceeding the best humans.
And where we thought some of these
games were really difficult,
might be decades away from solving,
we've had some impressive result.
In particular on the game of Go, but
also on some challenging video games
where RL-trained system are able to
achieve these really good results.
Doing well in games and
simulation is wonderful,
it really makes us see the potential for
the technology.
But what we care about in the long term
is, really, how well can this technology,
or algorithms,
help us solve real-world problems.
And so in an attempt to understand
how far the science has come and
how close we are to solving these
hard difficult real-world problems,
we started digging in the literature,
the recent literature.
And we looked at the last 25 years or
so of papers in RL.
So you see this curve,
it's actually growing very rapidly.
Early 2000s, just a few hundred papers
on the topic published every year,
more recently, upwards of 20,000
papers being published on this topic.
And so that's a lot of new
findings coming out every year.
And when we're asking, what of all
of these methods actually works
in the real-world, it makes it difficult
to sift through all of that information.
And so going back to the core topic for
today, it becomes very important
that the way the findings are reported
in the papers match our criteria
in terms of reliability,
robustness, reproducibility.
And so to check this out,
we conducted our own little investigation.
And we picked four papers out of
the whole bunch of them, we picked four.
In particular four that were
very well cited, commonly used,
there was code available.
And we started looking at how robust
were the findings in those papers.
And the message today that I'm going
to deliver actually goes beyond those
papers and is really looking at how we
practice empirical science in this field.
And so we started comparing some
of these four different methods,
these are policy gradient algorithms,
different flavors of policy gradient.
On this training of a very simple
agent which learns how to walk,
we held the HalfCheetah domain so
that the cheetah cartoon's split in half,
so only two legs.
It has to learn to run
without falling on its belly.
And we compare four different algorithms.
And on the left,
you see a plot with those four algorithms.
And on the basis of this,
you would probably think that the red
algorithm is doing quite
a bit better than the other.
Doesn't really matter which of
the algorithms is which on this,
really, our message is about
how do we do a fair comparison,
draw conclusions that
are robust from this.
So based on this one, it seems
this red algorithm's doing better.
Now, we extended this to slightly
different variations of controllers.
There's a another example which is
a hopper and another one that's called
a swimmer, slightly different versions of
this character that we have to control.
And when you look at the bottom two plots,
what you see is actually the blue
algorithm seems to be doing a lot better.
And in the left bottom side,
the blue algorithm's doing quite well
with a really tight confidence interval.
Whereas on the right side,
the blue algorithm's doing well, but
with a really wide confidence interval.
And so
taking all of these results together,
you would think if you try the performance
of each algorithm on more domains,
you'd have a better understanding
of how well it works and
better prediction of whether it
might be useful in the real-world.
And what we found here, we just got more
and more confused with each of these
experiments because the results just were
not consistent from one to the other.
We started digging in a little bit more
about what might be going on behind
the scenes.
We thought, well, we didn't implement
these algorithms on our own.
Of course, we used some available
open source code to do that.
So we thought maybe we didn't
get the right source for that,
maybe we got some poor
implementation somewhere.
We started digging out
different implementation.
And that what I'm showing you in the plot
is three different implementations
publicly available from one of
these four algorithms called TRPO.
And what you see here is one of
these versions, a blue version,
does a lot better than the other two.
We thought maybe TRPO is a policy gradient
method that's a little bit unstable,
code is hard to implement.
We looked at some other cases.
Very similar results,
you go from one code base to the other.
It's purporting to be the same algorithm,
it should work the same, right?
And yet, we're seeing really significant
difference in the empirical performance.
As we were asking more and
more questions and diving deep into what
might explain those differences, one
thing we noticed is that in many cases,
there's a lot of different hyperparameters
that have to be configured.
And depending how you set those,
you get very different results.
Most of the code bases come with
a default set of hyperparameters, and
it's very tempting to take that
default set, not change it, and
use it as is out of the box.
And what we found is once you
start manipulating these different
hyperparameters, it really changes
the performance of your algorithm.
So that's one lesson to take home,
really be very careful about what
are the hyperparameters, how they're set,
and how that might affect
the performance of the algorithm
once you run it on a new problem.
You might be tempted to say,
we're comparing different algorithms.
The most fair way to do those comparisons
is to give them the same amount of data,
same amount of computation,
everything's right.
But from our analysis, as I've mentioned,
what we've really found is that
to draw robust conclusions,
it's important to think a little
bit more deeply about the issue.
And particularly acknowledge the fact
that different algorithms are going to
have different hyperparameters.
You can't just use the same
from one to the other.
The different methods are going to
have different sensitivity to
those hyperparameters.
You might need to search longer and more
carefully about some of them than others.
And which method is best often
depends on how much data you have and
how much computation you can afford.
And so that's going to change drastically
from one application to the other,
depending where your
data is coming from and
on what kind of platform you're
trying to deploy your AI system.
Taking all this together,
stepping back to the main question.
I think my main message for you today is
that we have to be very careful about
how we interpret the information that
we read in papers, be very careful
about how we set up our experiments,
how we compare different methods.
And when we do that,
we can draw much more robust conclusions.
And really,
it goes back to the foundation of science.
Science is an activity,
a collective activity in which we engage,
and the purpose of it is, really,
to understand, to explain phenomenon.
And to do that,
you always have to be very careful
about the way in which you're doing it.
Thank you very much.